You know what's been the biggest change
the past decade has been the advance of
these really large tech companies who
have enormous balance sheets global
reach right so if you think about the
people that are now competing with our
coverage of media you know it's likes of
Amazon Amazon Prime of course YouTube at
Google Netflix is a massive company if
you're a traditional media company you
have to get scale scale of balance sheet
scale off cash flow scale off cost
cutting
Welcome back to another episode of WSJ's
Take on the Week. I'm Telus Deeos.
>> And I'm Miriam Gotfrieded.
>> Well, we've got a big episode this week.
Our main conversation is about, well,
our own business, the media. A lot going
on.
>> A lot going on. A lot of drama.
>> But first, we've got a few hot topics to
cover. A lot happening in the news this
week and a lot coming up. We've got
Donald Trump versus the Supreme Court.
Uh, we've got Mayor Mam Donnie and we've
got, as always, especially when you're
here, Miriam, private credit.
>> One of my favorite topics.
>> More to talk about there. All right.
Supreme Court. Well, of course, the
president, well, the president's lawyers
were in court to defend the president's
use of a certain tariff power, the EA or
EPA, which I'm sure all of you know,
AIPA, which all of you know, of course,
stands for the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act, which was one of
the ways that he used to create the uh
reciprocal tariffs. basically by
declaring that we were in a state of
emergency and that was what gave him the
power under this law to c to you know
enact these tariffs which would
typically be the role of Congress and so
now it's all the way to the Supreme
Court and it sounded like it didn't go
great for the president this past week.
The way that our Supreme Court reporters
here at the Journal described it was
that they they they seemed skeptical
that the president is able to use the
powers to to act as as aggressively as
he did with terror.
>> Yeah. A number of even Trumpapp
appointed justices seemed skeptical of
this argument of the government's
argument. So that means it maybe isn't
looking good for Trump in this case. Um
and you know the question is what does
that mean?
>> You know what what our reporters have
said is that typically when the
government is found to have illegally
taken money from somebody the court
orders to give it back. Normally, of
course, we don't pay too much attention
to the intricacies of trade law, but in
this case, there's the fiscal question
of whether or not the US government
would actually have to be ordered to
give back the billions and billions of
dollars that had collected in tariffs.
And then there's the question for the
stock market of whether companies that
had been impacted by tariffs will no
longer be impacted by
>> which has been one of the main
narratives this year in the stock market
>> in the huge really really the big story
in the stock market this year. But that
said, even if President Trump does
ultimately lose this case, there are
other authorities that President Trump
can use to impose tariffs, uh, for
example, there's section 122. I won't
get into the super details of it, but
that basically will allow tariffs of up
to 15% for 150 days to address trade
imbalances, which uh one of our
reporters, Gavin Bade, wrote that that
would give time to for Trump to devise
individualized tariffs for trading
partners under a different provision uh
section 301. So basically, tariffs
wouldn't go away. They might just come
back in some other form. But tell us,
you know, what this all boils down to is
more uncertainty for corporate America.
I mean, if you're a company that's been
subject to these tariffs and now they
may or may not be going away and there
may or may not be another set of tariffs
that could be put in their place, you
really don't know. And what does that
mean for your stock price? And what does
that mean for your ability to plan? Um,
I I think uncertainty is the enemy here
if you are a publicly traded company. Is
it though because we here we are at or
near all-time highs for the stock market
and the companies have been living with
this uncertainty for some time. It seems
that the market maybe has has moved on
and that this uncertainty isn't holding
people back.
>> I think the uncertainty is holding
people back but people don't know
whether to react positively or
negatively to tar to the these
particular tariffs being removed. Like
let's say you know things are leaning
toward you know Trump losing this case
this argument. What does that mean? We
still don't really know because as you
said, there could be another set of
tariffs. So, should I sell my stocks?
Should I buy stocks? Like, I don't
really know.
>> And of course, there's all other layers
of uncertainty that are coming in to
focus right now, which is what happened
in politics elsewhere, which was we had
some elections. We had, of course, the
New York City mayoral race. Zoran Mdani
won. Uh we had a couple of other closely
watched races, too. We've got the
governor's races in New Jersey and
Virginia. Democrats took those races.
Uh, and we had uh a Proposition 50 in
California passed, which means the
Democrats are able to redraw some of the
congressional maps there and and likely
pick up some some congressional seats in
the next time around. So, what does it
mean for the market if indeed Democrats
are kind of succeeding, maybe going to
be strong in these midterms? And and
what what what is the message that they
have for Americans? What what what's
helping them right now? I think the
unifying message across all of the
candidates who won was affordability. Um
once again, you know, as our colleagues
have written, the economy was front and
center as it always is. And you know,
inflation, which has been a big thing
that we've talked about on this podcast,
was, you know, a was a big focus, I
think, for these candidates. You know,
daily life is unaffordable. Um that was
something that Mom Donnie drilled home.
His, you know, campaign platform was all
tied to affordability in the city. And
that was a winning argument. Um, and of
course, you know, that was part of how
President Trump got elected by saying,
you know, Biden was responsible for all
the inflation and I can get us out of
that. Um, but
>> live by the sword, die by the sword for
Republicans, right? They've got to be
wary of of these inflation and kind of
cost of living.
>> I mean, it just shows that a lot of it
isn't really within the control of
politicians probably. I was watching the
market the day after the New York City
mayor race and a bunch of banks who are
lenders into the New York City uh rent
regulated market. Uh of course uh Mamani
has promised to freeze the rent uh
meaning that that he will not allow rent
regulated rent stabilized apartments
rents to go up. In theory of course
that's bad for for landlords and and and
bad for their lenders. But the stocks of
several of these banks were actually up
the next day. And uh the shares of one
of the largest uh apartment developers,
one of the largest apartment real estate
investment trusts, which again, you
know, has has rent regulated properties
uh in New York, their their shares were
up a little bit too.
>> Some drama in the market that I cover um
in the past couple weeks. uh the
alternative asset managers also known as
the private equity and credit firms.
When Blackstone reported earnings, it
even though it beat earnings, its
earning its shares fell uh because
people were really worried about the
health of the private credit market and
private credit has become a very big
business for Blackstone. That narrative
seems to have changed throughout the
course of the earnings cycle over the
weeks as more and more of these lenders
started reporting earnings and sort of
continued to beat the drum saying that
recent bankruptcies tied to First Brands
and um a subprime lender called uh or
Triolor um however you choose to
pronounce it. You know that these
bankruptcies were isolated incidents.
they didn't really have to do with the
thing that we normally call private
credit that their businesses were still
healthy. There's no major crisis going
on and they, you know, as executive by
executive continued to repeat this
mantra, people seemed to maybe sort of
buy it a little bit more and we saw, you
know, an improvement in their stock
price performance after earnings. Um, by
the time Apollo reported, people were
kind of cheery about it, although there
were other factors in that Apollo
report, too.
>> Yeah. Although Jamie Diamond scared
everybody earlier uh this cycle when he
talked about cockroaches in reference to
recent corporate bankruptcies that were
scaring everybody about what what other
sort of disasters could lurk but you
know despite that we haven't seen a wave
of increased defaults for uh for any of
these markets yet. Now, maybe there's
still things bubbling under the surface,
but you know, at some point, does does
does the greed factor kick in uh for the
market and overcome the fear factor that
okay, maybe there are some cockroaches,
but maybe that that these things won't
derail what has ultimately been this
huge wave of money coming into the
private markets, you know, in search of
yield and alternative forms of credit
and things like that. Yeah, the AI boom
will continue to fuel all of this and
and you know, okay, so we have to smush
a couple of cockroaches and then move
on, right?
>> Well, and I think there's also this idea
that stocks are, you know, at all-time
highs and, you know, our colleague
Spencer Jacob wrote a very well- read
column um about how, you know, a very
important um metric, you know, the
Schiller PE ratio is indicating that
stocks are not going to really give us
that much over the next few years in
terms of returns. So people are looking
for alternatives and there's an argument
to be made that maybe private credit
could be one of those alternatives and
that's an argument that Apollo made too.
So I think that's kind of an interesting
theory. We'll see if that pans out.
>> Obviously another thing powering these
alternative asset managers will be the
improved deal making environment. We're
seeing a lot more M&A, a lot more deals
taking place. People predicted that
earlier this year. It finally seems to
be landing now. That could be good for
these managers too. So that's I think
something to really watch with them. And
speaking of dealmaking, that relates to
our big conversation today, which is
about media consolidation, specifically
the possible deal between Paramount Sky
Dance and Warner Discovery, and what
else might happen to Warner Discovery if
that deal doesn't happen.
>> Well, I'm glad we're doing this because
I know even though I work in the media
biz, I lose track of who owns what these
days. Like for example, I learned
recently when CBS News was in the news
itself, who owns them? Which which of
the firms owns them?
>> Paramount Sky Dance owns CBS.
>> Okay. And then but then CNN is owned by
>> Warner Discovery.
>> Okay, great. So they could in theory be
part of the same company at some point.
>> Yeah. I mean, wouldn't that be quite a
convergence?
>> Well, that's wild stuff. And joining us
remotely for this episode to talk about
that are uh Michael Nathansson, senior
analyst from Moffett Nathansson and his
colleague Robert Fishman, also a senior
analyst at Moffett Nathansson. These
guys are both longtime media analysts.
They've been following this industry
forever and they say that this is
potentially the very last stage in the
long history of media consolidation.
>> Yeah, you recorded this interview
earlier this week and uh I I've been
excited to hear it ever since. So, so
let's let's let's get to it.
>> That's coming up in a bit.
>> We are here with our guests, Michael
Nathansson, senior research analyst and
founder of Moffett Nathansson, and
Robert Fishman, senior research analyst,
Moffett Nathansson. Good to have you
guys.
>> Good to be here. Thanks for having us.
>> So, the biggest story in media right now
is what's going on at Paramount Skyance.
Fresh off the merger that created this
company, it's now trying to buy Warner
Discovery, which is itself a product of
a 2022 merger. And a deal to combine
these two companies would create a media
behemoth. Robert, what are Paramount
Skyance and its CEO, David Ellison,
trying to achieve with this merger?
>> I think the timing of when they're
trying to do this uh signals to me at
least that this was the plan all along.
Um and the reason that they I think are
pushing forward here is because they
need to reach scale and scale in
streaming specifically. Most of the
media companies are are trying to
compete with Netflix now who's already
won in terms of the scale war um and in
in terms of profitability. So when you
think about global scale, what I think
Warner Brothers Discovery is is looking
to solve for Paramount is to achieve get
them closer to to achieve that global
scale ambition.
And that kind of gets to the next
question I wanted to ask you which is
the media business is facing a lot of
stress right now from a variety of
factors. we have, you know, the changing
economics of streaming, the ongoing
decline of the cable ecosystem, and the
rise of short form video sites like Tik
Tok. What can consolidation and scale,
as you said, do to change that?
>> So, in terms of the the global scale,
really what what these media companies
need to achieve is having that global
subscriber base that allows you to
spread all of this investment costs over
a much larger base. And so what what
they need from from the scale both in
the US, if we want to start there, is
the ability to to better monetize the
existing subscribers both through
subscription um pricing, but also
probably more importantly going forward
advertising. And as these ad dollars are
shifting from the traditional linear uh
ecosystem that that you alluded to and
going towards connected TV and different
ways in that that the uh viewers are
engaging w with content today. Um that
allows you to compete better for those
ad dollars going forward especially on a
global basis when thinking about how
these companies are looking to grow over
the next 5 10 years.
>> Yeah. Miriam, you know what's been the
biggest change the past decade has been
the advance of these really large tech
companies who have enormous balance
sheets, global reach, right? So, if you
think about the people that are now
competing with our coverage of media,
you know, it's the likes of Amazon,
Amazon Prime, of course, YouTube at
Google, Netflix is a massive company. If
you're a traditional media company, you
have to get scale, scale of balance
sheet, scale off cash flow, scale off
cost cutting. You know, it is a
different playing field than what Robert
and I encountered when we started our
careers 20 years ago. Things have
flipped on its head. And in the days
where we used to say, you know,
international businesses in media were
Australia, Canada, and the UK because
they spoke English, that's no longer
true. And I think our companies, ours
mean the media companies that we started
covering way back when, they've been
slow to wake up to the fact that you
need global scale in all markets of the
world, at all price points, at all
content types in order to compete longer
term.
>> So, we should really start to be
thinking about these media companies as
competing with the big tech balance
sheets in a lot of ways. I mean, that
that's a pretty high hurdle for them.
>> I I think it's incredibly high hurdle
for them. I think as Robert I talk about
all the time their biggest the media
company's biggest um strengths you'd say
right now would be sports contracts that
they've tied up for 5 to seven years and
library you know they have great library
they have great IP and I think Robert
and I would agree that they're starting
to chip away the tech companies at the
sports rights you're seeing that more
and more the harder part Robert right
has been they're they've not able the
tech compan has not been able to build
even Netflix this kind of recurring
great library content that, you know,
yeah, they have Stranger Things, but
that's a one-off. They don't have the IP
that Disney or Warner's, you know,
Universal, Paramount would have.
>> So, it's still really an IP game. Yeah.
For the media companies.
>> Yeah, I was going to go there, too. So,
in terms of sports, I mean, clearly the
the tech companies that that Michael
referenced are all looking at sports as
this last um critical IP to the
traditional media ecosystem. And if they
can disrupt that, that's like the next
leg in terms of where traditional media
has been holding on to as as their last
uh real asset to to um drive incremental
advertising and and to hold on to
affiliate fee dollars as well. But if
they lose control exclusively over the
sports rights going forward, that's
going to have another leg down in terms
of the disruption that it's had on the
traditional ecosystem. So if you can
bring the the critical IP and and
franchises to the table and monetize
that in both a streaming and
non-streaming world that that's kind of
like the ultimate solution here to to
compete
>> and and may your first question I think
the market was telling us clearly that
Paramount Global on its own and Warren
Bros Discovery on its own with the
balance sheets that they had and their
assets were not going to be long-term
winners. ers in this business.
>> So, in a way, it's almost like a race
against time for Paramount Sky Dance to
bulk up in some way to get there. Uh, it
seems like and Robert, given that, you
know, we have Paramount Sky Dance
reporting earnings um coming up and
given everything that's going on, what
will investors be focused on in that
report? I mean, are they just looking at
the big picture or do they care about,
you know, the actual numbers for the
quarter? Well, I think it's clear that
the numbers for 3Q specifically are are
are much less important in terms of the
overall picture here, especially when
thinking about the future of Paramount
and and what we're going to learn um in
terms of the the the plans that this is
really the the first unveiling to to
Wall Street in terms of where they want
to go with this. And uh it will be
interesting to to hear how much we we
hear about consolidation as part of that
plan. But even without consolidation, um
clearly Ellison and and the whole um
Skyance team is thinking about the the
long term here. You've seen that through
a lot of their early investments and and
they might be headscratching and try to
uh have difficulty in terms of making
the math work initially, thinking about
the the UFC deal as one example. Uh but
if they're thinking about this from a
completely different perspective about
the next call it 5 10 years and not the
next couple of years I think that's what
investors are probably looking for. H
how can you get returns on some of these
initial investments?
>> Can you tell us a little bit more about
the UFC deal for those who weren't
following it?
>> Sure. So ESPN had the rights to the UFC
deal. Um, and basically TKO, who owns
UFC, um, took that to market and found a
plus one bidder that was willing to pay
in in our perspective, um, you know,
much higher that than what the the
market suggested. And so what it did was
really signal to the market that
Paramount is going to approach these
investments in a very different way. Um,
again, that that might mean losing money
initially, but um, I'm sure from
Paramount's perspective that if they can
drive incremental subs on a combined
basis, that can help offset the the
upfront losses.
>> So, making a splash here at the
beginning. Um, we'll see how that works
out. I guess I want to take a step back
and zoom out a little bit and I want to
turn to you Michael because you've
covered media for a really long time and
you um have been following the ins and
outs of these companies for a long time
and they're really part of a long
history of you know big media companies
getting together and breaking apart
again. And you know if you look back at
history have media deals, media tie-ups
yielded um positive you know results for
shareholders? Have they been a good
thing for shareholders?
>> Yeah, thanks Miriam. Thanks for saying
that. I'm I'm old, but I appreciate
that. [laughter] Um, you know, before I
worked on Wall Street, I worked at a
company called Time Warner, and Time
Warner was kind of poster child for big
media tie-ups. If you remember in that
time, these two companies merged, then
they bought Turner
and AOL. [laughter]
And that's always going to be kind of my
exhibit one of why these tie-ups may
look great on paper and strategically
make sense. They just don't work. So I I
don't love seeing um these massive
tie-ups. I think what we've learned over
the years, Robert and I, is that the
small tuckin deals like buying a Pixar,
buying a Tuby, which what Fox did, like
being strategic and investing in growing
categories with entrepreneurial spirits
is a better use of capital than just
trying to find scale through M&A. You
end up paying a big premium for um for
businesses that really, you know, at the
end of the day don't live up to, you
know, the valuations that were paid.
Robert, what do you think about that? I
mean, given that history, should
Paramount investors be rooting for this
merger? And what about Warner Discovery
Investors?
>> Well, from Warner Discovery Investors, I
think you're you're clearly rooting for
for these mergers. Um, but for from the
Paramount side, as Michael was saying
that, I I was questioning, you know, to
myself, is this time really going to be
different? Because streaming um is this
X factor? And clearly from the linear
media side, I think you know to to
Michael's point, we haven't seen a lot
of of success stories there. But for
streaming, I I would raise the question,
is this almost a necessity? Again, back
to the scale issue. These standalone
streaming services can't compete on
their own. So, I would argue it's almost
a necessity that they have to come
together. Let's look at Discovery
Standalone um before they were merged
with Warner Media. Clearly that that has
not worked out well back to the the
Warner Brothers um Discovery Investors.
But at the same time, without it,
Discovery Standalone probably would have
been even worse off to to to be honest
about it. So if if we think about what
is a necessity versus, you know, where
where the end payoff is, those two
answers might be uh pretty different.
Michael, after years of covering media,
you now focus on big tech and you know,
as we've been talking about, these
companies like Amazon and Apple and
obviously Netflix are big players um you
know, in the media game. Now, we know
Netflix, it's a pretty focused company
in terms of its strategy, but if if I'm
Apple or Amazon, what is my goal in
media? What am I trying to achieve? And
you know, Warner Discovery has said that
maybe some of its assets could be of
interest to companies like that, what
would they be possibly trying to buy?
>> Okay. If if if you're Apple, I'm not
sure what the answer to that question
is. You know, they've been making great
content for a while here, but Apple is
an enigma. I don't understand,
you know, why they haven't gotten more
aggressive on in sports rights, why they
haven't looked at other companies to buy
when they had a chance. Um, I don't
think Apple knows what it wants to do
when it grows up in media. And their
bigger challenge is really, you know,
trying to build Siri to be, you know,
nextgen AI platform that people love.
So, I'd be surprised if Apple, you know,
kind of broke thesis and went after
media. Amazon, it's clear what they're
doing, right? Their ad platform is
growing like gang busters, right? And
they basically focused more and more
sports. Amazon Prime, you know, they had
they had they start the NFL, now they
had the NBA this season. So, I think if
you're Amazon, you're like, look, this
is a way to disrupt the linear world,
add premium content and drive ads
through our platform, and we have all
the first party data. You we know what
Miriam B versus Robert, we have all this
brand connectivity because we help
brands sell more things on Amazon. Let's
just find more surface areas to sell
more advertising. So, I think it's I
think their story is really tight and
really complete. And I think, you know,
we think that they're not going away
anytime soon.
>> And, you know, going back to Warner
Discovery, what kinds of things, like if
if if they were truly interested in some
of the assets, like what assets might
they be interested in?
>> You have all the DC content. You have,
you know, great history of of you DC
comics. So, you could see more Batman,
more Superman coming through Amazon
globally. CNN. You want to add CNN?
Robert, am I missing anything? Like for
the Amazon uh thesis of why Amazon would
want to chase these guys?
>> I I think it comes down to that, you
know, very valuable IP. I mean, we
didn't touch on HBO, which obviously is
is one of the the crown jewels there.
So, um HBO and and Warner Brothers
content, both on the TV side and on the
the theatrical side. What would be the
reason that all of these other companies
are are going to at least look right?
>> Our colleague Craig Moffett covers
Comcast. He's he's been a bit doubtful
that, you know, Brian Roberts will find
the regulatory approval necessary to buy
these assets. And we'll see if Brian
Roberts is able to horse trade to get a
deal done. So, I'm not sure that Comcast
is is really out of this at this point.
Michael, if you could just tell us, you
know, why um Comcast, NBC, you might be
interested in some of the Warner
Discovery assets.
>> There's a bunch of reasons. One is
Peacock, you'd argue, 41 million subs,
not growing. No, global footprint is
under scale, right? So HBO and Peacock
solves a Peacock problem. Ho's global
Universal Studios and Warers and NBC are
all contiguous. They all between Burbank
and Universal City, they share a
footprint. You would you would build the
most dynamic studio in the world by
combining Universal and Warers. That'd
be pretty interesting. Um, you also have
all these sports rights in one place,
right? So, you have the NBA, which now
Comcast has, the NHL and baseball. And
also now Comcast is spinning out Versant
which is a cable network company and
they can take out a lot of capacity uh
in cable by combining Versant and Warner
Discovery's u assets
>> right Versant is basically all of the
Comcast cable network spun out into one
separate company right
>> everything but Bravo Bravo works on bra
on Peacock but yeah it's like
>> to me that's the perfect that's the
that's a much better fit in my view than
Paramount. So, Michael, let's say this
mega media company, which I'm going to
lovingly call Paramount Sky Dance Warner
Discovery or until it gets a better
name, uh, gets created. What would that
mean for the competitive landscape? I
mean, if I'm Disney right now, for
example, am I quaking in my boots at the
thought that this could happen?
>> I don't think you're quaking your boots
because what's going to happen here is
that these companies will emerge.
There'll be more discipline on the types
of content they invest in. Yes, they'll
be bigger. you afford, you know, maybe
more expensive things, but at the end of
the day, you will lose a competitor,
right? Paramount or HBO will be merged
into one. You lose a competitor. Uh you
won't be able to make as many films
because you're going to look to scale
back your film investment, right? So at
the end of the day, I would say everyone
who's in this industry will be better
off by having a, you know, another
competitor, no doubt scaled, but just
less competition for weekends and for
new content, you know, um, investments,
right? So I think I think it's really
healthy for the incumbents to have this
deal happen.
>> We're going to take a quick break and
when we come back, we've got one more
question.
We are back with Michael Nathansson of
Moffett Nathansson. Michael, um, you
know, I used to cover media for Herd on
the Street, so I was following a lot of
this stuff. Um, I've been doing it for a
long time, too, so you're not the only
old one. Um, Viacom split into Viacom
and CBS, which later merged back
together to create Paramount, which then
merged with Sky Dance and now wants to
merge with Warner Discovery. A decade
from now, will we be talking about why
these companies are breaking up again?
>> Yeah, that was the original sin. By the
way, the breakup of the VI come into two
pieces was one of the dumbest things
ever. We all knew it at the time. And
look, look how badly the Redstone family
has done as investors because of it. But
I think we're at the end. That's kind of
the sad part for me to truth be told.
We're at the end. This is probably the
last mega deal we will see. If the cable
network assets are the problem, not the
broadcast asset, the cable networks, but
that's going to be pushed off of
people's balance sheets and what's left
will be studios, streaming, broadcast,
and some combination of that. And that's
kind of the end of it. Marian, we're
like like I go back to my Time Warner
start like the first mega conglomerate
here. And I think we're almost done.
You, you know, that asset will no longer
exist, sadly enough, you know.
>> Wow. End of an era. Well, this has given
me a lot to think about. I love talking
about media. Um, you know, maybe it's
cuz I work in the media. Thank you so
much for joining us, Michael Nathansson
and Robert Fishman of Moffett
Nathansson.
>> Our pleasure. Thanks for having us,
Miriam.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Should we expect fewer streaming
platforms or higher costs?
>> Yes. In 30 30 seconds or less is my dogs
barking. Hold on a second. Hold on. Hold
this. This is a crazy day.
[music]